---
title: Invitation to Gentle orgy on 16th to 17th of November 2024
hidden: true
url: invitation/gentle-orgies/2024-11-16/
order: 0
abstract: |
  The Lovers' Guild invites you to a Gentle Orgy—a weekend gathering of loving and conscious sexual expression.
  We gather to develop our relationship to ourselves and to celebrate and enjoy sexuality in an open, intimate, accepting, respectful and safe environment.

  This page is complemented by an invitation message sent by email, from which you'll find all the details that we don't want to publish on the internet.
  If yo did not receive this message, request it from the person from whom you received the link to this page, or [contact][contact] [the Lovers' Guild][guild].

  [contact]: https://loversguild.org/contact/
  [guild]: https://loversguild.org/
...

# Basics of Gentle orgies

In this section we have gathered links of articles that present [Gentle orgies][orgy] in detail.
We advise you start becoming acquainted at [the frontpage of Gentle orgies][orgy].
If you are interested in participating in our orgies, read the following articles with particular care:

- [Overview of Gentle orgies][overview]
- [Who are the Gentle orgies for?][for-whom]
- [Culture of Gentleness][culture]
- [Rules][rules]
- [Protection][protection]

[orgy]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/
[overview]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/overview/
[for-whom]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/for-whom/
[culture]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/culture/
[rules]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/rules/
[protection]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/protection/

The rest of this invitation is written with the assumption that you have read and internalized the contents of the aforementioned articles.

# Preparing for Orgies

Start by reading the contents of this site and the invitation you received by email, twice. 
If anything is unclear or without answers please contact the organizers.

Think in advance about what kind of boundaries and wishes you have in regards to sexual interaction.
This also applies to your principles regarding protection.
Be prepared to tell others about your boundaries and wishes.
Your wishes and boundaries can be as general or as detailed as you want them to be.
Think also about how you will pay attention to your love-making partner during the orgies and how you will communicate with them in a way that guarantees you are aware of their wishes and boundaries.

Practice saying no.
Saying no is difficult for many people.
Imagine a situation that you want to withdraw from and think about how it would be easiest for you to reject propositions that don't appeal to you.
Try to also imagine situations where you get rejected.
Think about how you can support yourself and still thank the other party for taking care of their own boundaries.

Get tested for sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
For more info, refer to the section on [STI testing](#sti-testing).

Come clean and smelling like yourself.
Some of us are sensitive to different scents, so do not use even natural perfumes.
Your own smell is the most desirable of all.

Brush your teeth and cut your nails before the orgy.
The body's delicate mucous membranes do not enjoy scratching.

We accept you looking like yourself, so you do not have to spend time making yourself look presentable or trimming your hairs for us.
Wear clothes that you yourself like.

Menstruation is not a problem for us and we offer towels to protect mattresses.
We deeply appreciate fertility and the menstrual cycle, and we consider it an honour that one would join our orgies during such a sensitive part of their cycle.

You can bring with you your own towel for showering, special condoms, lubricant, dental dams or other things you wish to have with you.

# Schedule of the Orgy

We start the Gentle orgies together.
Make sure that you arrive on time!
We will not accept latecomers after having started to preserve the group dynamic and safe atmosphere. 

We start with a introduction circle where everyone can share: 

- who they are and how they are feeling today,
- what kind of wishes and boundaries they have regarding touch and sex,
- their principles regarding protection,
- their STI status, and
- the last time they got tested for STIs, what samples were taken and what the results were.

Boundaries can, of course, change during the night and they may be different for different partners.
It is still beneficial for everyone to discuss their general principles and wishes together in the circle.

After the introduction circle we will do guided exercises together.
The purpose of these exercises is to let us get to know one another and to give us new perspectives on ourselves and our sexuality.
These exercises, like with everything in the orgies, can be done according to your own boundaries.

The rest of the evening and night we play freely, surrendering ourselves to love and the enjoyment of our bodies.
All sexual play happens in the common space.

If you feel the need for your own space in the orgy, you may have some whenever you wish.
You may, for example, withdraw to the outer edges of the love-making pile to lovingly gaze at the enchanting beauty of sex.
There is also a separate room available for withdrawal if you feel the need to spend some time alone meditating, for example.

You do not need to be hungry or thirsty at the orgies.
Tea and light snacks are available at the gatherings all night.
For ethical and ecologic reasons the catering is entirely vegan and, for the most part, organically sourced.
If you wish, you may bring something light and suitable for vegans to the common table to share with everyone.

During the orgy the organizers are always available if you wish to receive personal attention or want to talk with us.
We are not, however, teachers or therapists.
Instead, we are co-explorers and we participate in the exercises and playing to the best of our abilities.
Still we are ready to withdraw from the play whenever you need our support.
During the beginning of the event, one of us will remain outside the love pile so that asking for help would be as easy as possible. 

We wholeheartedly welcome everyone to stay the night with us.
We provide a peaceful place to sleep for those who need it.
Others may sleep together on shared matresses.
In the morning we offer breakfast and closeness for those who so desire.
We recommend staying the night, as in the morning the people will feel more familiar and the atmosphere will be even more relaxed
You are, however, always free to go home whenever you want to. 

The beginning program along with the guided exercises lasts from four to five hours. 
For the orgy as a whole, if you wish to play without hurry, it is recommend you reserve at least ten hours for the event.

We end the orgy with a closing circle together around noon.
We hope that as many people as possible will join the circle to share their experiences and to close the shared space together.

# Taking care of protection

In Gentle orgies everyone can freely define their principles when it comes to protection.
Before the orgy, consider what kind of protection you want to use and what kind you require others to use with you.
Think about whether certain things, such as your potential partners' STI test status, is something that affects your boundaries with them.

Be prepared to tell others about your protection practices.
Here are three examples of setting boundaries regarding protection:

-   “I want a condom to be used in intercourse with me.
    I can give and receive oral sex without protection, but I do not want sperm or blood on my mucous membranes.”

-   “I want to use protection during intercourse and oral sex.
    I can practice manual sex without protection.
    However, I do not wish for anyone to touch my mucous membranes with hands that have other people's secretions on them.”

-   “I don't have fixed rules for protection.
    My choice depends on my partners' STI testing.
    With some partner's I might be willing to sharing a lot of mucous membrane contact and with some I might require strict protection.”

At Gentle orgies, condoms, water-based lubricant and protective gloves will be available.
Our gloves are latex-free, our condoms are not.

Do not use oil-based lubricants during the orgy (or even the day before) as it deteriorates most protective items.

# STI testing {#sti-testing}

There is still much unnecessary shame and stigmatization relating to STIs in our society.
Matter of the fact is, only some STIs are dangerous and even those few are mostly dangerous only if not treated.
The risks associated with STIs are often exaggerated.
The driving force behind such activity is often old-fashioned or religious moral values.

STIs are rare in communities where people are aware of and take their risks into account.
In Gentle orgies, we want to both protect ourselves from STIs as well as increase awareness and openness related to them. 

Every time you have sex with another person, whether it be a new partner or someone you've known for years, you will come to contact with this person's bacteria and viruses.
Most of us have sex partners who in turn have their own partners who also have their own partners, and so forth.
All these people form a network that we may call the love network.
Unfortunately STIs can spread in the love network unless we take proper pre-cautions regarding them.
Every time someone in your love network has a new contact, it is possible that a new bacteria or virus starts spreading.
New contacts are not formed just by making love to a new partner, but also new kinds of mucous membrane contact between well-known partners form new contact.

For the sake of the orgies it is vital for you to know who belong to your love network and what kind of contacts they have.
When you are telling others in the orgy about your STI status, take into account also the STI status of all your direct and indirect partners.
You do not have to thoroughly explain the structure of all the contacts within your love network.
However, be aware of the situation in case someone you are interested in at the orgy wants to know more. 

We hope that you get tested before the orgy if there have been any changes whatsoever within your love network before the last time you got tested.
Remember to take into account the delay between infection and it showing up on a test.
You can apply for tests at, for example, health stations and venereal diseases outpatient clinics.
Unfortunately, getting exhaustively tested in public healthcare is occasionally complex.
To get the tests that you want, you generally have to name every sample you want.
Tell the person interviewing you at the test site that you attend group sex events in which you make love to unfamiliar people.
This will add to the likelihood of you getting the tests you wish for.

The most common and useful samples are:

- HIV (blood sample)
- Syphilis (blood sample)
- Hepatitis B and C (blood sample)
- Chlamydia and gonorrhoea (urine sample and throat and rectal swab – all three samples separately)

Do note that most STIs are asymptomatic for a long time.
Not having symptoms does not necessarily mean that you do not carry any infections.
Note also that STI tests do not reveal all infections immediately.
In the case of chlamydia and gonorrhoea, the delay between infection and them showing up in tests is one week, meanwhile for HIV and syphilis the delay is three months.

Even though getting access to STI tests is sometimes cumbersome, getting tested will make you feel responsible and happy!
The more participants get tested actively, the more relaxed and safe everyone at the orgy will feel.

# Advice for love-making

We encourage everyone to approach themselves and their sexuality with gentle curiosity. 
We recommend you to explore the themes brought up in the evening's exercises in your own love making.
Adopting new ideas often requires patience, but it is also very rewarding. 

Making love is not a performance but a sacred meeting with another person.
The untamed wild depths and sensitive vibrations of love-making will only open up to us once we forgo our goals and preconceived notions about what sex should be.
Making love with a new person can be very pleasing if both parties communicate clearly about their feelings and wishes.
When we decide to make love to another person, we open up our hearts and minds to them and also commit ourselves to taking care of both parties' own and common pleasure.

We recommend that you make love slowly and gently.
First of all, as opposed to rushing to the goal, you feel things more and deeply when proceeding slowly.
Second of all, it is also important to note that long and rough play can strain and damage mucous membranes easily.

In long term, rough sex also diminishes your body's sensitivity to touch.
Our nervous system adapts to the stimulation it receives, either by becoming more sensitive if the impulses felt are subtle or by numbing if the impulses are very strong.

Condoms should be used with care and caution.
A condom that is too big or one that is slipped over a wet penis will easily slip off during intercourse.
Condoms can also break during rough sex.

Ejaculation can end the play pre-maturely for some.
Abstaining from ejaculation can also be a very rewarding exercise.

We try to meet others as deeply as possible in the orgy.
It is completely natural and allowed to fall in love with others.
Our nights are, however, a moment of exceptional meetings and the connections born from it will not continue after unless both parties desire so.

# Cost sharing

There are a lot of costs involved in organizing orgies.
Organization also takes a lot of time.
Because the Lovers' Guild has no funds in itself, the organizers pay all the costs themselves: food, condoms, lubricant, mattresses, sheets, organizers' travel costs, electricity, water and so forth.
The Lovers' Guild also has running costs, such as website maintenance and phone bills.
We wish for donations from participants in order to cover the costs and to also support our future endeavours, according to everyone's economic situation.
Donations can be made in cash at the orgy.

# Inviting an avec

Our community warmly welcomes new participants.
If you have courageous, open, gentle, trustworthy and caring friends, invite them to join us!

You may also attend with a person whom with you have an existing sexual or romantic relationship.
In this case, however, first read [our article on participating with avecs][avec].

[avec]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/avecs/

Send the email you receive to your friends or partners and make sure that they have read it along with the side material.
When you sign up with an avec, we will either choose both of you or leave both of you out, in case we don't have enough space.
If you are open to participating separately, sign up without naming your avecs.

We organizers want to speak directly with your avecs before the orgies so that we get to know each other.

# Signing up

Sign up as a willing participant by email.
You can find the email address from the invitation letter sent by email.
In the same email you will find information on what date you have to sign up by.
We choose the participants the day after the sign-up period ends.
It is also possible to sign-up and participate even after this period if we have room for more people.

Within a few days, after deciding the participants, we will send you an email informing you that you and your avecs have either gotten in or been placed in a queue.
At the same time, we will be informing all who have been chosen about where the orgy will be held.

Inform us immediately if you do not wish to participate despite your sign-up.
Then we can include some other willing person in the orgy.
Do take into account that cancellations cause us extra trouble at times.
That is why we wish for you to be committed to the decision to participate.
If you are willing but unsure, please let us know so that we can discuss the matter with you.

As you sign up, we wish to receive the following details about you:

- First and last name
: We request this in the name of transparency—we organize orgies with our real names and believe that trust plays a key part in the orgies.

- Phone number (optional)
: We will only call you in case of sudden changes.

- Whether you are staying the night
: For some people sleeping in an unfamiliar place is not suitable at all.
  We reserve places to sleep and ingredients for breakfast based on how many people are in need of them.

- Sexual orientation
: Let us know if you prefer love-making partners with a certain type of genitalia.
  We use this information in choosing participants to further increase the chances of finding suitable playmates.

- Genitalia
: (Female/male/other)

- Allergies (optional)
: We will inform other participants about severe allergies if necessary.

- Year of birth
: We use this information to determine and inform other participants of the age range of participants. 

- The names of your avecs
: If you wish to invite an avec or several, please tell us their names (with their permission, of course).
  We hope for avecs to send their sign-up emails themselves.
  This makes it easier for us to get their consent to handle their data.

- Unwanted persons (optional)
: You can tell us the names of the people who with you do not wish to attend.
  Only list people whom you believe could be interested in orgies.
  We will tell you after the end of the sign-up period if any of these persons has signed up, but naturally, we will not tell you who in particular it is.
  You may then make the decision to cancel your participation, if you so wish to.
  This is another reason why we ask for everyone's names.
  We do not keep memo of the people on your list of unwated person from previous orgies.

- Consent to process your data
: Some of the information we require is classified as sensitive by law.
  If you have not previously participated in events at the Lovers' Guild, you must give your consent for the processing and storing of your sensitive information when you sign up. 
  (See below information on our participation registry.)

- Other (optional)
: Inform us also of other things you think we should be aware of.

You do not have to send us information we have of you already.
By only sending us information that has changed, you save our time.

Data of all participants will be stored in the Lovers' Guild [participant registry][registry].
Read the register statement before signing up. 
Unfortunately this information is at present only available in Finnish.

[registry]: https://rakastajienkilta.fi/vastuullisuus/tietosuoja/osallistujarekisteri/
