---
title: Invitation to Gentle orgy on 18th to 19th of October 2024
hidden: true
url: invitation/gentle-orgies/2025-10-18/
order: 0
description: |
  **The Lovers’ Guild** invites you to a **Gentle Orgy**—a weekend gathering of loving and conscious sexual expression.
  We gather to develop our relationship to ourselves and to celebrate and enjoy sexuality in an open, intimate, accepting, respectful, safe and corageous environment.

abstract: |
  [The Lovers’ Guild][guild] invites you to a [Gentle Orgy][orgy]—a weekend gathering of loving and conscious sexual expression from Saturday afternoon on 18th of October until Sunday afternoon on 19th of October in Viikki, Helsinki.
  We gather to develop our relationship to ourselves and to celebrate and enjoy sexuality in an open, intimate, accepting, respectful and safe environment.

  We start together on Saturday at 15:00 and we end the orgy after the closing circle on Sunday at latest at 14:00.

  This orgy features *playfulness* as its theme.
  We practice a gently playful stance to sexuality and seek to understand how it feels.
  How is it to let go of all preconceptions of seriousness when it comes to lovemaking, and to learn to trust how a playful mind also creates deep togetherness?
  When we gather up the courage to express our joy, we can also let our love and play flow freely.

  Gentle orgies are organized communally.
  Our organizing group consists of eight members.
  You can find our introductions in the invitation message you received via email.

  We welcome everyone to help with the organization of the orgy.
  If you would like to assist or have not received the invitation message, please contact us.
  You can find our contact information at the end of this invitation letter.

  [guild]: https://loversguild.org/
  [orgy]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/
...

# Basics of Gentle Orgies

In this section we have gathered links of articles that present [Gentle orgies][orgy] in detail.
If you are interested in participating in our orgies, read the following articles with particular care:

- [Overview of Gentle orgies][overview]
- [Who are the Gentle orgies for?][for-whom]
- [Culture of Gentleness][culture]
- [Rules][rules]

[overview]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/overview/
[for-whom]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/for-whom/
[culture]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/culture/
[rules]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/rules/

The rest of this invitation is written with the assumption that you have read and internalized the contents of the aforementioned articles.

# Preparing for Orgies

Start by reading the contents of this site and the invitation you received by email, twice.
If anything is unclear or without answers please contact the organizers.

Think in advance about what kind of boundaries and wishes you have in regards to sexual interaction.
This also applies to your principles regarding protection.
Be prepared to tell others about your boundaries and wishes.
Your wishes and boundaries can be as general or as detailed as you want them to be.
Think also about how you will pay attention to your lovemaking partner during the orgies and how you will communicate with them in a way that guarantees you are aware of their wishes and boundaries.

Practice saying no.
Saying no is difficult for many people.
Imagine a situation that you want to withdraw from and think about how it would be easiest for you to reject propositions that don’t appeal to you.
Try to also imagine situations where you get rejected.
Think about how you can support yourself and still thank the other party for taking care of their own boundaries.

Get tested for sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
For more info, refer to the section on [STI testing](#sti-testing).

Come clean and smelling like yourself.
Some of us are sensitive to different scents, so do not use even natural perfumes.
Your own smell is the most desirable of all.

Brush your teeth and cut your nails before the orgy.
The body’s delicate mucous membranes do not enjoy scratching.

We accept you looking like yourself, so you do not have to spend time making yourself look presentable or trimming your hairs for us.
Wear clothes that you yourself like.

Menstruation is not a problem for us and we offer towels to protect mattresses.
We deeply appreciate fertility and the menstrual cycle, and we consider it an honour that one would join our orgies during such a sensitive part of their cycle.

You can bring with you your own towel for showering, special condoms, lubricant, dental dams or other things you wish to have with you.

Apart from tea, cacao and coffee, our orgy is free of intoxicants.
Smelling of alcohol or being suspected of other drug use is reason enough to turn a guest away from our door without further questions.

# Programme of the Orgy

We start the Gentle orgies together.
Make sure that you arrive on time!
We will not accept latecomers after having started to preserve the group dynamic and safe atmosphere.

We start with a introduction circle where everyone can share:

- who they are and how they are feeling today,
- what kind of wishes and boundaries they have regarding touch and sex,
- their principles regarding protection,
- their STI status, and
- the last time they got tested for STIs, what samples were taken and what the results were.

Boundaries can, of course, change during the night and they may be different for different partners.
It is still beneficial for everyone to discuss their general principles and wishes together in the circle.

After the introduction circle we will do guided exercises together.
The purpose of these exercises is to let us get to know one another and to give us new perspectives on ourselves and our sexuality.
These exercises, like with everything in the orgies, can be done according to your own boundaries.

The rest of the evening and night we play freely, surrendering ourselves to love and the enjoyment of our bodies.
All sexual play happens in the common space.

If you feel the need for your own space in the orgy, you may have some whenever you wish.
You may, for example, withdraw to the outer edges of the lovemaking pile to lovingly gaze at the enchanting beauty of sex.
There is also a separate room available for withdrawal where you can spend some time alone meditating, for example.

You do not need to be hungry or thirsty at the orgies.
Tea and light snacks are available at the gatherings all night.
For ethical and ecologic reasons the catering is entirely vegan and, for the most part, organically sourced.
If you wish, you may bring something light and suitable for vegans to the common table to share with everyone.

During the orgy the organizers are always available if you wish to receive personal attention or want to talk with us.
However, we are not teachers or therapists.
We are co-explorers and we participate in the exercises and playing to the best of our abilities.
Once we start to play freely, one of us organizers will stay as a support person for some time and will not take part in lovemaking.

We hope that as many as possible will stay the night with us.
The atmosphere of the orgy often is the most beautiful as the evening turns into night and lovers, spent from making love, curl up to sleep—one on their own matress, others in each other’s arms.
We offer a peaceful sleeping space for those who seek it.
Others may sleep together on shared matresses.
The most sensitive sleepers might want to bring earplugs, as we have found that the sounds of lovemaking can often be enjoyed at the orgy late into the night.

In the morning, we will prepare breakfast together.
After that, there will be time to continue the playful affection – deepening connections with familiar partners or exploring those with whom you didn’t have the chance to make love the night before.

We will end the orgy together with a closing circle, which we will start on Sunday between 11 and 13 o’clock, depending on the group’s level of satisfaction.
We hope that as many of us as possible will join the circle to share experiences and to close the shared space together.

However, you are welcome to leave for home whenever you feel like it.
The initial guided program, including exercises, lasts about five hours.
It’s good to set aside at least ten hours for the orgy if you want to play without rushing.

# Taking Care of Protection

At Gentle orgies, everyone defines their own policies on protection.
To make conscious and responsible choices, it’s important that everyone understands the basics of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and their transmission.
STIs are rare in communities that are aware of their risks and take them into account.
We want to protect ourselves from STIs while also increasing awareness and openness about them.

There is still a lot of unnecessary shame and stigma associated with STIs in our society.
In reality, only some STIs are dangerous, and mostly only when left untreated.
Some infections classified as STIs are completely harmless to their carriers and resolve on their own.

At Gentle orgies, protection practices are as varied as the participants themselves.
Some wish to protect themselves from all mucosal contact and bodily fluids.
When used properly, condoms, dental dams, and gloves protect against most STIs.
Using them is very important if a partner has any STI or if there is suspicion of an infection.
Engaging in physically protected sex reduces the need to consider the STI risks associated with a partner or chances of pregnancy.
For some, using protection provides a feeling of safety.
It can also be a principled choice.

It is also possible protect onesself from STIs through active testing and open discussions about risks with partners.
This is especially significant for those for whom mucosal contact in its various forms is a desired and important aspect of lovemaking.
Mucosal contact can enhance sensitivity, make lovemaking more intimate, and strengthen the emotional connection between partners.

We strive to make Gentle orgies as safe as possible for everyone, regardless of how much mucosal contact each person wants to share with others.
We hope that everyone gets tested for STIs before the orgies, especially if there have been changes in their situation since their last test.
By minimising risks, everyone feels safer and we can play together more freely.

Condoms, water-based lubricant, and gloves will be available at the Gentle orgies.
Our gloves are latex-free, but our condoms are not.

## STI Testing {#sti-testing}

When passionate people are making love with each other in a large group, it is important for everyone to be aware of the potential consequences of their choices for both themselves and others.
The best way to protect others from STIs at orgies is to be aware of whether one is carrying any STI.
Since some STIs show no symptoms, the only way to find out is to get tested.
Going for STI tests may seem laborious or stressful, but it’s worthwhile as it fosters a sense of responsibility.

To know if your previous STI test results are still valid, you also need to be aware of your partners’ situations.
From the perspective of STI transmission, each person has direct contact with their own partners and indirect contacts with all their partners’ partners, and so on.
To determine whether your STI test results are still current, you need to know what new contacts you and everyone in your network have had since your last tests.

The risk of having an STI is almost non-existent if everyone you’ve contacted has been tested, received negative test results, and has only had sex with individuals who have also tested negative.
Remember that infections may take time to show up in tests, which is one week for gonorrhea and chlamydia, and up to three months for HIV and syphilis.
If these conditions do not apply to you, or if it’s been over a year since your last STI test, we hope you go for testing before participating in Gentle orgies.

You may seek testing at health centres or at the sexual health clinic (Sukupuolitautien poliklinikka).
Unfortunately, access to comprehensive STI testing can sometimes be complicated.
To get the tests you want, you almost always need to ask for specific samples by name.
Let the testing facility know that you are attending group sex events where you will be making love with strangers.
This increases the likelihood that you will receive the tests you desire.

The most common and useful samples are:

- Chlamydia and gonorrhea (3 separate samples)
  - If you’ve had genital sex, the sample should be taken from genital mucosa or urine.
  - If you’ve had oral sex, the sample should be taken from the throat.
  - Similarly, for anal sex, the sample is taken from rectal mucosa.
- HIV (from a blood sample)
- Syphilis (from a blood sample)

We hope everyone shares basic information about their STI situation with others in the introduction circle at the orgy.
You do not need to explain in detail all your contacts’ protection practices or test results, but be prepared to discuss them with your lovemaking partners if asked.

Here are two examples of how to share one’s situation in the introduction circle:

-   “I have two regular partners with whom I have unprotected sex.
    My partners also have their own unprotected partners.
    I had STI tests two weeks ago, and the results were negative.
    All my contacts get tested for STIs regularly.
    My partners and I generally do not use protection during oral sex with new people.”

-   “I had tests for HIV and syphilis six months ago, three months after my last unprotected intercourse.
    I had tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea a month ago.
    All test results were negative.
    I haven’t had any new sexual contacts in the last month.
    I have an active oral herpes infection, so I won’t kiss or give oral sex to anyone who doesn’t already have the same herpes infection.”

## Setting and Expressing Boundaries

We share our STI situations at the orgy so that everyone can decide individually what kind of protection they want to use when making love with others.
However, everyone should also consider on a general level how they primarily wish to protect themselves.
We will share these general principles in the introduction circle.

Here are three examples of setting boundaries concerning protection:

-   “For penetrative sex, I want condoms to be used at all times.
    I can give and receive oral sex without protection, but I don’t want sperm or blood on my mucous membranes.”

-   “My need for protection entirely depends on my partners’ STI situations.
    With some, I may not want any mucosal contact at all.
    With others, I might be willing to have sex completely without barriers.”

-   “I want to use protection during penetrative sex and generally during oral sex as well.
    It is possible to negotiate the use of dental dams on a case-by-case basis.
    I can engage in manual sex without protection.
    However, I don’t want others to touch my mucous membranes with their hands if they have bodily fluid from others on them.”

# Advice for Lovemaking

We encourage everyone to approach themselves and their sexuality with gentle curiosity.
We recommend you to explore the themes brought up in the evening’s exercises in your own love making.
Adopting new ideas often requires patience, but it is also very rewarding.

Making love is not a performance but a sacred meeting with another person.
The untamed wild depths and sensitive vibrations of lovemaking will only open up to us once we forgo our goals and preconceived notions about what sex should be.
Making love with a new person can be very pleasing if both parties communicate clearly about their feelings and wishes.
When we decide to make love to another person, we open up our hearts and minds to them and also commit ourselves to taking care of both parties’ own and common pleasure.

We recommend that you make love slowly and gently.
First of all, as opposed to rushing to the goal, you feel things more and deeply when proceeding slowly.
Second of all, it is also important to note that long and rough play can strain and damage mucous membranes easily.

In long term, rough sex also diminishes your body’s sensitivity to touch.
Our nervous system adapts to the stimulation it receives, either by becoming more sensitive if the impulses felt are subtle or by numbing if the impulses are very strong.

Condoms should be used with care and caution.
A condom that is too big or one pulled over a wet penis will easily slip off during intercourse.
Condoms can also break during rough sex.

Please do not use oil-based lubricant at the orgies (or even a day before), as it can deteriorate most protective devices.

Ejaculation can end the play pre-maturely for some.
Abstaining from ejaculation can also be a very rewarding exercise.

# Keeping in Touch with Other Participants After the Orgy

At the Gentle Orgies, we aim to meet others as deeply as possible in our true selves.  
In our view, making love is an excellent way to get to know new people, as it helps free us from social roles, thereby reducing friction on the path to connection.  
It would be a tremendous waste if we did not want people to get to know each other at the Gentle orgies: to build friendships, fall in love, and begin to save the world together.  

The Gentle orgies foster a warm and open-hearted community to which all participants are welcome to join.  
We have a discussion group on Telegram, where much more is talked about than just the orgies and their organization.  

For some, however, the Gentle orgies are a place to make love and share intimacy with others without the need to feel obligated to commit or respond to another’s desires after the shared encounter has come to an ending.  
We want the orgy to be a safe and obligation-free space for these people too.
If your heart wishes to stay in touch with a participant after the orgy, act very considerately and politely and inquire about this with your beloved only as they are leaving for home.  
If this proves difficult in practice, we, the organizers, can act as messengers and at your request relay your contact information to the person of your interest after the orgy.

# Sharing Costs

There are a lot of costs involved in organizing orgies.
Organization also takes a lot of time.
Because the Lovers’ Guild has no funds in itself, the organizers pay all the costs themselves: food, condoms, lubricant, mattresses, sheets, organizers’ travel costs, electricity, water and so forth.
The Lovers’ Guild also has running costs, such as website maintenance and phone bills.
We wish for donations from participants in order to cover the costs and to also support our future endeavours, according to everyone’s economic situation.
Donations can be made in cash at the orgy.

# Participating with an Avec

Our community warmly welcomes new people.
If you have courageous, open, gentle, trustworthy and caring friends, please invite them to join us!
Participating with someone you know can provide comfort in an exciting situation.

In order to participate together with one or multiple avecs, send them the invitation you received via email and make sure that they have read it along with the side materials.
Your avecs must sign up themselves using their own email addresses.
We organizers want to speak directly with your avecs before the orgies so that we get to know each other.

You may also attend together with people whom with you have an existing sexual or romantic relationship.
In this case, however, read our article on [participating with avecs][avec] before making agreements.

[avec]: https://loversguild.org/gentle-orgies/avecs/

On the registration form we request that you provide the names of your companions.
If you name someone as your avec, you will only be selected for the orgy together with them.
If your avec is not selected as a participant, you will also be left waiting in the queue.

If one of your avecs does not reciprocally name you as their avec, they may be selected to join the orgy without you.
This is intentional, as sometimes participating together can be a requirement for one member of the partnership but not for another.

If your avec cancels their own participation, we may unfortunately need to cancel your participation as weel, if we find no other way to retain the balance of genitalia in the orgy.

# Signing up

Sign up as a willing participant by filling out [the registration form][signup-form] at latest on Monday 29th of September.
We choose the participants the day after the sign-up period ends.
It is also possible to sign-up later, and you will get in if we have room for more people.

[signup-form]: https://signup.loversguild.org/?event=2025-10-18&lang=en

Within a few days, after deciding the participants, we will send you an email informing you that you and your avecs have either gotten in or been placed in a queue.
At the same time, we will be informing all who have been chosen about where the orgy will be held.

If for some reason you cannot attend the orgy even though you have signed up, cancel your registration immediately!
Then we can include some other willing person in the orgy.
Please note that cancellations cause us significant amount of extra work.
For this reason we wish that your decision to attend the orgy is commited.
If you are curious but unsure, please let us know so that we can discuss the matter with you.

Details of all participants will be stored in the Lovers’ Guild participant registry.
Read our [Privacy Policy][registry] before signing up.
Unfortunately this information is at present only available in Finnish.

[registry]: https://rakastajienkilta.fi/vastuullisuus/tietosuoja/osallistujarekisteri/

To prevent spam submissions through our registration form, you need to enter a magic word “karpalo” in the form.

# Orgznizers’ Contact Information

You can reach us via email at syyslempiaiset@loversguild.org.
You can also contact us by  phone, text messages or in Telegram.
You can find the phone number from the invitation message you received by email.
We are very happy to answer any questions you may have.

Lustfully yours\
Aura, Eeva, Hanna, Hilla, Milka, Panu, Purr, Sakari and Visa
